# skiplist-implementation
skiplists randomized

The Skip-List Data structure has been implemented in C, and the following experiment is run to analyze its performance over various inputs.

The whole purpose of a skip-list is to make every element equally and easily accessible on an average. The experiment performed here inserts the same set of 20 different numbers into the skip list for a 1000 times. Additional data-structure(array) called level maintains the sum of different levels allocated to each element in every iteration. Now, at the end the average level allocated to every element is computed from the level array by dividing the corresponding sum of levels of the element by no of iterations performed.

We declare MAXLEVEL of 7. An ideally random Skip-list should allocate nearly the same average level to all the elements.

Set of Elements: {25,36,71,89,13,45,92,66,52,9,23,74,96,82,59,72,36,12,28,3}

The output of the program is included in attached output.txt file. This file clearly shows that every element is allocated nearly the same level on average which is the desired behavior of skip-list.


##Program Description:

###File structure:

Main.c contains the code for experiment analysis and also prompting the user to give manual input.

Skiplist.h contains the prototypes of all functions required to perform necessary operations.

Skiplist1.c contains the definitions of required functions. These functions are described below:

Void initialize_skiplist() : initializes the skip-list by creating header node with max-level no of pointers and joins the header node with NIL node created with same no of pointers and a key value of 9999.

Void insert_element(int n,int newkey) : inserts the element into the list.

Node* makeNode(int newlevel, int searchkey, int newvalue) : returns new node by allocating a level generated by random_level() function within a desired range.

double random() : generating a random number.

int search_element(int n) : for searching the element in the list

void delete_element(int n) : for deleting the element in the list.

void printList() : for printing the list at the end.
